contracts/trading/seaport/zones/immutable-signed-zone/v2/README.md, before:

# Immutable Signed Zone (v2)

The Immutable Signed Zone contract is a [Seaport Zone](https://docs.opensea.io/docs/seaport-hooks#zone-hooks) that implements [SIP-7 (Interface for Server-Signed Orders)](https://github.com/ProjectOpenSea/SIPs/blob/main/SIPS/sip-7.md) with support for [substandards](https://github.com/ProjectOpenSea/SIPs/blob/main/SIPS/sip-7.md#substandards) 3, 4 and 6.

This zone is used by Immutable to enable:

* Enforcement of protocol, royalty and ecosystem fees
* Off-chain order cancellation

# Status

Contract threat models and audits:

| Description                     | Date | Version Audited | Link to Report |
| ------------------------------- | ---- | --------------- | -------------- |
| Not audited and no threat model | -    | -               | -              |

## ImmutableSignedZoneV2

| Location                | Date         | Version Deployed | Address |
| ----------------------- | ------------ | ---------------- | ------- |
| Immutable zkEVM Testnet | Not deployed | -                | -       |
| Immutable zkEVM Mainnet | Not deployed | -                | -       |

## Architecture

The trading system on the Immutable platform is shown in the diagram below.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  client[Client] <-- 1. POST .../fulfillment-data ---> ob[Immutable Off-Chain\nOrderbook]
  client -- 2. fulfillAdvancedOrder ---> seaport[ImmutableSeaport.sol]
  seaport -- 3a. transferFrom --> erc20[IERC20.sol]
  seaport -- 3b. transferFrom --> erc721[IERC721.sol]
  seaport -- 3c. safeTransferFrom --> erc1155[IERC1155.sol]
  seaport -- 4. validateOrder --> Zone
  subgraph Zone
    direction TB
    zone[ImmutableSignedZoneV2.sol] --> AccessControlEnumerable.sol
  end
```

The sequence of events is as follows:

1. The client makes a HTTP `POST .../fulfillment-data` request to the Immutable Orderbook, which will construct and sign an `extraData` payload to return to the client
2. The client calls `fulfillAdvancedOrder` or `fulfillAvailableAdavancedOrders` on `ImmutableSeaport.sol` to fulfill an order
3. `ImmutableSeaport.sol` executes the fufilment by transferring items between parties
4. `ImmutableSeaport.sol` calls `validateOrder` on `ImmutableSignedZoneV2.sol`, passing it the fulfilment execution details as well as the `extraData` parameter
   1. `ImmutableSignedZoneV2.sol` validates the fulfilment execution details using the `extraData` payload, reverting if expectations are not met

Commit message:

[TD-1397] ImmutableSignedZoneV2 internal audit fixes (#214)
* update readme

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>

* pin solidity version

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>

* perform check before state change

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>

* pin ImmutableSignedZoneV2 contracts to 0.8.20

* Revert if context is empty for ImmutableSignedZoneV2

* Revert "pin ImmutableSignedZoneV2 contracts to 0.8.20"

This reverts commit 8da6123a601e93ae1fb480f162ad81d93260d1ac.

* Restore pin

* Disallow revoking role if the role member count is currently 1

* remove trailing comma

* documentation rework

* fix test

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>

* fix regression

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>

* update test name

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>

* add audit file

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>

* Update contracts/trading/seaport/zones/immutable-signed-zone/v2/README.md

---------

Signed-off-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Frank Li <b439988l@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Naveen <116692862+naveen-imtb@users.noreply.github.com>

contracts/trading/seaport/zones/immutable-signed-zone/v2/README.md, after:

# Immutable Signed Zone (v2)

The Immutable Signed Zone contract is a [Seaport Zone](https://docs.opensea.io/docs/seaport-hooks#zone-hooks) that implements [SIP-7 (Interface for Server-Signed Orders)](https://github.com/ProjectOpenSea/SIPs/blob/main/SIPS/sip-7.md) with support for [substandards](https://github.com/ProjectOpenSea/SIPs/blob/main/SIPS/sip-7.md#substandards) 3, 4 and 6.

This zone is used by Immutable to enable:

* Enforcement of protocol, royalty and ecosystem fees
* Off-chain order cancellation

# Status

Contract threat models and audits:

| Description                     | Date | Version Audited | Link to Report |
| ------------------------------- | ---- | --------------- | -------------- |
| Not audited and no threat model | 2024-05-02   | V2               | -  ../../../audits/trading/202405-internal-audit-immutable-signed-zone-v2.pdf            |

## ImmutableSignedZoneV2

| Location                | Date         | Version Deployed | Address |
| ----------------------- | ------------ | ---------------- | ------- |
| Immutable zkEVM Testnet | Not deployed | -                | -       |
| Immutable zkEVM Mainnet | Not deployed | -                | -       |

## Architecture

The trading system on the Immutable platform is shown in the diagram below.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  client[Client] <-- 1. POST .../fulfillment-data ---> ob[Immutable Off-Chain\nOrderbook]
  client -- 2. fulfillAdvancedOrder ---> seaport[ImmutableSeaport.sol]
  seaport -- 3a. transferFrom --> erc20[IERC20.sol]
  seaport -- 3b. transferFrom --> erc721[IERC721.sol]
  seaport -- 3c. safeTransferFrom --> erc1155[IERC1155.sol]
  seaport -- 4. validateOrder --> Zone
  subgraph Zone
    direction TB
    zone[ImmutableSignedZoneV2.sol] --> AccessControlEnumerable.sol
  end
```

The sequence of events is as follows:

1. The client makes a HTTP `POST .../fulfillment-data` request to the Immutable Orderbook, which will construct and sign an `extraData` payload to return to the client
2. The client calls `fulfillAdvancedOrder` or `fulfillAvailableAdavancedOrders` on `ImmutableSeaport.sol` to fulfill an order
3. `ImmutableSeaport.sol` executes the fufilment by transferring items between parties
4. `ImmutableSeaport.sol` calls `validateOrder` on `ImmutableSignedZoneV2.sol`, passing it the fulfilment execution details as well as the `extraData` parameter
5. `ImmutableSignedZoneV2.sol` validates the fulfilment execution details using the `extraData` payload, reverting if expectations are not met

## Differences compared to ImmutableSignedZone (v1)

The contract was developed based on ImmutableSignedZone, with the addition of:
 - SIP7 substandard 6 support
 - Role based access control to be role based

### ZoneAccessControl

The contract now uses a finer grained access control with role based access with the `ZoneAccessControl` interface, rather than the `Ownable` interface in the v1 contract. A seperate `zoneManager` roles is used to manage signers and an admin role used to control roles.

### Support of SIP7 substandard 6

The V2 contract now supports substandard-6 of the SIP7 specification, found here (https://github.com/immutable/platform-services/pull/12775). A server side signed order can adhere to substandard 3 + 4 (full fulfillment only) or substandard 6 + 4 (full or partial fulfillment).
